# Case Study: npm
*[npm](http://npmjs.com) wanted to use the REST API to deliver custom brochure pages and upsell boxes on their website.*
> Security was of paramount importance to us and as a result, we needed a headless WP instance hosted under the same constraints as in our production environment. This meant reliance on the WordPress API to deliver authored content via JSON to our build, giving us the ability to parse and display CMS-generated content without having to grant access to any non-whitelisted IP Addresses.

Nick Cawthon, npm## Why use WordPress and the REST API?npm wanted to use WordPress as a central repository for their documentation and their product pages. Its straightforward interface means that content authors can easily add data, which is delivered to the client in JSON format.

## The buildThe npm website has a WordPress backend and admin. A bespoke API built of custom endpoints serves content in JSON format to a Node.js server. This renders the final HTML and sends it to the browser where Handlebars renders the templates. The API doesn’t just send the data: it sends rendered HTML along with scripts and stylesheets. This is cached by the Node.js server so that the website stays up even if WordPress is unavailable. It also means that the website stays fast without having to expend effort scaling the database.Some customisations recreate the post preview feature of WordPress. Parts of the CSS templates and handlebars frontend are used to create a basic WordPress theme which authors use to preview posts before they are published and pushed to the frontend.