# Why use the WordPress REST API?

*We explore some of the reasons that you may want to use a headless WordPress with the REST API in your own projects, drawing out specific technical and project management- related benefits.*The WordPress REST API allows you to use WordPress as a headless CMS. Developers can interact with WordPress independently of the theme system, using it only as a data storage and delivery platform. There are many benefits to doing this.

## Create context-specific solutionsAround 25% of all websites use WordPress. These websites are PHP-based, with frontends built with the WordPress theme system. The API frees developers and allows them to use any technology that will solve a problem in their specific context. WordPress no longer has to be concerned with the frontend: it can just deliver data to any frontend technology. A developer can take data from a WordPress website and display it using the technologyof their choice, whether that’s for a website, Android application, iOS application or whatever context the data is needed.

## Reusable, portable contentThe content entered into WordPress is no longer limited to being displayed on a WordPress website. A REST API-powered website has content which is infinitely portable. Your content authors only need to enter data in one place. Once it has been authored and published in WordPress, it’s now available via the API and can be delivered to websites, web applications, and mobile and desktop applications.## Separation of concernsIn traditional WordPress development, where the frontend and backend are tightly coupled, frontend developers need to be familiar with at least some aspects of WordPress. This makes it difficult to hire and work with purely frontend developers. In a decoupled environment this is no longer a problem. Different teams can work on different parts of a project while having access to the same data: a backend team can work on WordPress and the database, a team can build the frontend in JavaScript or another web technology, you can have an iOS team and an Android team. Your JavaScript developer no longer needs to learn PHP to work with WordPress, and your WordPress developer no longer needs to tinker with JavaScript. This widens the pool of development talent available to work on your website or application, and streamlines project management.
## Familiar backend for authors and publishersOne of the reasons WordPress has been so successful is that it provides an easy-to-understand interface for non-technical users. With the REST API, you don’t have to decide between using your frontend technology of choice and giving your authors the admin interface they want. Authors and editors can work in the WordPress admin and the data is delivered to the frontend by the API. You have the advantage of providing an admin interface which many authors will already be familiar with, reducing the need for training and re-training, and letting authors quickly start adding content.## Integrate WordPress as one part of a content-authoring workflowWordPress may only be suitable for one aspect of your website or application. The REST API allows you to use WordPress for just those elements that it is suitable for. The New York Times, for example, [uses WordPress for its live coverage platform](http://www.slideshare.net/ScottTaylor1/2015-wordcamp-maine-keynote): data is received via WebSocket from a custom-built service, rendered in React, and served to the frontend via the WordPress REST API. In August 2015, [the paper even added Slack to its publishing workflow](http://www.niemanlab.org/2015/08/the-new-york-times-live-blogged-last-nights-gop-debate-directly-from-slack/). This makes WordPress just one module in a larger stack, making it more available to the wider web development community for smaller, specific tasks.
## WordPress as a central repositoryThe web is increasingly API-driven, with websites and services aggregating data. The REST API makes it possible for WordPress to be the central place that brings all of this data together. This means that all of your services and data can be centralised while providing your authors with a straightforward interface that they are familiar with. This also provides a standard platform for further functionality with WordPress’ plugin system.
## Develop with live dataWhen data is exposed through the REST API it can be used by developers in their development environment. Content can be added to the CMS and is available to developers whether they are working on the frontend, the admin, or any applications.