# How the REST API will change WordPress development

*We look at some of the ways that the REST API will change WordPress development and the impact that this will have both for WordPress-based websites and applications, and for the people creating them.*## WordPress as part of a larger stackWordPress has a familiar and easy to use user interface which authors want to use for managing and publishing content. With the REST API, you can provide this interface to your authors without compromising on the rest of your stack.

##New approaches to project managementThe separation of concerns that come with a REST API project mean approaching project management in a new way. Developers will independently focus on different aspects of the website or application, working with live data retrieved using the API.
## The WordPress developer as a backend specialistThere will be an increase in the number of WordPress developers who are backend specialists, focusing on the admin screens and the database, while leaving the frontend layer to frontend developers.## Permeation of WordPress outside of PHP communitiesAs a single module in a larger stack, WordPress will be used increasingly outside of its traditional community. The REST API allows developers to create websites and applications in any language without having to roll their own CMS.
## The emergence of funnelled, role-based adminsThe REST API allows developers to create funnelled administration experiences that focus on a particular user doing particular actions. These focused admins will remove clutter and empower the user to do exactly what they need to do.
## The enhancement of built-in WordPress functionalityThe REST API makes it easier for developers to enhance functionality in the WordPress admin. Developers can create client-side features in the admin that are more advanced and more performant than can be achieved with PHP.
## Explorations in non-GPL products
The absolute separation of concerns means that frontend products that retrieve data from the API will not need to be GPL. It’s unlikely, however, that we’ll see a vast increase in API-powered themes due to the challengesof rebuilding native WordPress functionality on the frontend.